docs/getting_started/fhevm/coprocessor/geth.md, before:

# Integration

This document is a guide listing detailed steps to integrate `fhevm-backend` into [go-ethereum](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum) or any other implementations that follow the same architecture. We use `geth` and `go-ethereum` interchangeably from now on.

{% hint style="info" %}
This document is based on go-ethereum v1.14.3
{% endhint %}

The Go library that we integrate into geth is [fhevm-go-coproc](../../../../fhevm-engine/fhevm-go-coproc/README.md).

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->
We also have changes to geth itself here [go-ethereum](https://github.com/zama-ai/go-ethereum-coprocessor).

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->
To start a local geth coprocessor full node, please have a look at: https://github.com/zama-ai/go-ethereum-coprocessor/blob/master/Dockerfile.devnode

To execute the actual FHE computation, a [Coprocessor Backend](coprocessor_backend.md) is needed.

This document is still work in progress. Above repositories serve as reference for now.

Commit message:

chore: remove unused Go code
Since the coprocessor moved to event-based implementation, we no longer
need EVM integration in Go. Furthermore, the Go code is no longer
maintained and is out of sync with the rest of the codebase.

docs/getting_started/fhevm/coprocessor/geth.md, after:

# Integration

**Note**: The coprocessor has moved to an event-based architecture and, therefore, it no longer requires integration into geth. We leave
this integration guide for future reference only or if geth integration is needed in certain circumstances.

This document is a guide listing detailed steps to integrate `fhevm-backend` into [go-ethereum](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum) or any other implementations that follow the same architecture. We use `geth` and `go-ethereum` interchangeably from now on.

{% hint style="info" %}
This document is based on go-ethereum v1.14.3
{% endhint %}

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->
The Go library that we integrate into geth is [fhevm-go-coproc](../../../../fhevm-engine/fhevm-go-coproc/README.md).

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->
We also have changes to geth itself here [go-ethereum](https://github.com/zama-ai/go-ethereum-coprocessor).

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->
To start a local geth coprocessor full node, please have a look at: https://github.com/zama-ai/go-ethereum-coprocessor/blob/master/Dockerfile.devnode

To execute the actual FHE computation, a [Coprocessor Backend](coprocessor_backend.md) is needed.

This document is still work in progress. Above repositories serve as reference for now.
